# Hebrew-Reading-Trads
All files relating to website Hebrew Reading Traditions (Eda valashon online)

# Test


The website Hebrew Reading Traditions is quite straightforward. Its purpose is to preserve different phonetic realizations and intonations of biblical readings that have developed over the past millennia, both preserving unique historical features of Hebrew and innovating in often very interesting ways. After the Jewish people went into exile, dozens of different groups settled in dozens of different countries and communities. As time passed, each community developed its own distinct traditions. Many of these communities, until relatively recently, had lived in utter isolation. Although this affected nearly every aspect of religious practice, we have decided to focus on a very documentable aspect of the tradition, which is the way in which the Bible is read. Astonishingly, all these groups managed to preserve an identical Bible, but the pronunciations with which they read it vary immensely. Someone familiar with one dialect may not even be able to interpret the same text being read in another dialect– that is the extent to which the traditions transformed and flourished over time.
Additionally, these traditions are a linguist’s treasure-trove for studying a truly unique phenomenon within the history of human languages, as well as of immense value as part of a shared human heritage, with significance beyond Jewish communities.
When the state of Israel was established in 1948, Jews from all around the world decided to immigrate there– many of whom were from Middle Eastern and North African countries, which is the geographical area that the majority of the recordings are from (as opposed to Europe or the United States). This immigration, though, had a sort of assimilationist effect. No longer were these communities living in relative isolation where the tradition was passed down from generation to generation. Rather, Israel became an amalgamation of different readings, a melting pot of tradition. This has unfortunately led to the extinction of some traditions and the endangerment of many more. Furthermore, nearly every reading pattern has been altered from its original form before the immigration to Israel. In response to this, Prof. Shlomoh Morag (1926-1999, ז״ל) of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem created the Hebrew University Languages Tradition Project to record these various traditions before they became extinct. These files have existed since the 80s (starting in the late 50s) but are not easily accessible, outside of a hard-to-find all-Hebrew tab on the website of the Hebrew Academy (https://hebrew-academy.org.il/%D7%90%D7%95%D7%A1%D7%A3-%D7%94%D7%9E%D7%A1%D7%95%D7%A8%D7%95%D7%AA/) . Caleb King had access to a zip of these files from his research on these projects with Prof. Geoffrey Khan at Cambridge University.
The above is all context for the website. Its operation should be quite intuitive; that, after all, is the goal of a website intended for the public. There’s a database in which you can search for any relevant information that you might know. Results will show up with recordings (also containing reader name, country, city, book, chapters, and year). You need to look up the entire word, and it is not case-sensitive. Only relevant results will appear. Additionally, there’s an interactive map where you can click on a region, and results will show up from that region containing the same information as the table. Furthermore, the relevant biblical text from those passages will appear alongside the recording, which will be helpful to listeners if they happen to know Hebrew. Regardless, to be able to look at the text as it is being read out is a key feature.
The website is written using flask. To run it, open the zip file, and execute flask run (see requirements for the necessary components). Click on the link in the terminal, which will allow you to access the website. At that point, you have 2 choices to explore the website, which I will walk you through (compared to the more broad overview above). Firstly, you can explore the interactive map. You can zoom, move around, and click on particular locations. After clicking on a location, all data will show up that pertains to that location. Clicking on the homepage button in the top left corner will reset search results by showing all data (the initial form in which the data is presented). The same search process can be done with the search bar in the top right corner, and resetting it can be done the same way. After a range of data appears with the specifications requested, you can click on the specific recording that you intend to listen to, at which point text you will be taken to a separate page where text will show up alongside the recording. To get back to the homepage and reset the data, again click the home button.
SOURCES AND BACKGROUND READING:
Mp3 files: converted from .wav files that Caleb King had as part of outside research. From the Hebrew University Language and Tradition Project. Can be accessed by anyone at https://hebrew-academy.org.il/%D7%90%D7%95%D7%A1%D7%A3-%D7%94%D7%9E%D7%A1%D7%95%D7%A8%D7%95%D7%AA/
Text of the Hebrew Bible: All XML files are from www.tanach.us
Background reading:
Khan, Geoffrey, “Biblical Hebrew: Pronunciation Traditions”, in: Encyclopedia of Hebrew Language and Linguistics, Edited by: Geoffrey Khan. Consulted online on 06 December 2022 <http://dx.doi.org.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/10.1163/2212-4241_ehll_EHLL_SIM_000576>
First published online: 2013
First print edition: 9789004176423

Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rHBtX-5ukxQ&feature=youtu.be

MP3s: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1FSH5IVxVwEc52dvObrxf7gTWQEz--MXv/view?usp=share_link
